Hello this is the video for the
coursework of neural computing.
This is my paper and it is about
comparing multilayer perceptrons
and support vector machines
using the data set regarding
customer churn in a bank.
Let's run the.
Test code first because it took
a bit of time to plot some
curves.
So this is the file for model
training and also.
Including initial data analysis.
So at first initial analysis of
the data set was conducted and
then the baseline of with a
single hidden layer was
established and hyperpar tuning
was conducted through research.
And then your search and also
baseline of MLP model with two
hidden layers was built and
hyperparameter tuning was done
to identify.
The model with the highest test
accuracy and to select for the
final model.
Similarly, the baseline of SVM
model was built. Hyperparameter
tuning was done through grid
search and manual search, and
the model with the highest
accuracy was selected as a final
model.
In this process, SVM required a
lot of time for training and
grid search, so the different
type of research was applied.
Here it is called a halving grid
search provided by scikit learn.
Another.
SVM baseline model using the
linear SVC code for large data
set was built and compared with
the model using SVC code. In
conclusion, the model using SVC
code with RBF kernel after
hyperparameter tuning showed a
highest accuracy and that model
was selected as a final model.
Despite numerous
hyperparametining and changes of
the number of iterations and
epochs, if you look at the
training process of each final
model.
You can see a slight a small
spike during validation in the
MLP's loss plot and also SVM's
learning curve here is there
there is a small spike in
learning curve of the final SVM
model and.
Here, here is there is a spike
as well for the final MLP model.
Through this, a more detailed
adjustment of the number epochs
is necessary in the final MLP
model and additional
hyperparameter tuning such as
regularisation C is necessary in
the SVM model to prevent
overfitting.
OK, so let's check the test run
with reproducibility has been
confirmed by loading each final
model and each test set.
Modified for each model, not
only the test accuracy but also
ROC curve and calculation of AUC
precision recall curve and
average precision score were
used to compare.
Two models.
The MLP model confirmed that it
had a better performance than
the SVM model for this bank
churn data set. Although SVM
took a lot of time and memory
while training, and MLP also
took a considerable amount of
time due to K fold cross
validation and epochs. If more
detailed hyperparameter tuning
in regularisation and early
stopping were implemented in
code, a more stable model with
better accuracy might be
achieved. Thank you.